---
id: 4.JavaScript Variables
aliases: []
tags: []
---

# JavaScript Variables

<!--toc:start-->

- [JavaScript Variables](#javascript-variables)
  - [Date: 2025-02-23](#date-2025-02-23)
  - [Introduction](#introduction)
  - [What is a Variable?](#what-is-a-variable)
  - [Declaring a Variable](#declaring-a-variable)
  - [Assigning a Value to a Variable](#assigning-a-value-to-a-variable)
  - [Accessing a Variable's Value](#accessing-a-variables-value)
  - [Using Variables with `console.log()`](#using-variables-with-consolelog)
  - [Creating Multiple Variables](#creating-multiple-variables)
  - [Reassigning Variables](#reassigning-variables)
  - [Conclusion](#conclusion)
  <!--toc:end-->

## Date: 2025-02-23

## Introduction

- A JavaScript program starts as an empty world, like a sandbox game.
- It has an underlying structure that allows us to build on it.
- Variables help us store and reuse values instead of typing them repeatedly.

---

## What is a Variable?

- A variable is a container for storing data.
- It allows us to reuse values and modify them dynamically.

---

## Declaring a Variable

- Use the `var` keyword to declare a variable.
- Example:

```js
var person;
```

- This creates a variable named `person`, but it is still `undefined`.

---

## Assigning a Value to a Variable

- Use the assignment operator (`=`) to give a variable a value.
- Example:

```js
var person = "John";
```

- Now, `person` holds the value `"John"`.

---

## Accessing a Variable's Value

- Simply type the variable name and hit Enter in the console:

```js
person;
// Output: "John"
```

---

## Using Variables with `console.log()`

- The `console.log()` method outputs values to the browser console.
- Example:

```js
console.log("Hello", person);
// Output: Hello John
```

- This combines static text (`"Hello"`) with a dynamic variable (`person`).

---

## Creating Multiple Variables

- Variables can store different pieces of information.
- Example:

```js
var greeting = "Hello",
console.log(greeting, person);
// OutputL Hello John
```

---

## Reassigning Variables

- Variables can be updated without using `var` again.
- Example:

```js
greeting = "Hi";
person = "James";
console.log(greeting, person);
// Output: Hi James
```

- This demonstrates the flexibility of variables-same code, different output.

---

## Conclusion

- Variables make JavaScript programs dynamic and reusable.
- They allow us to change values without modifying the entire code.
- Mastering variables is essential for building interactive programs

---
