# Destructuring in JavaScript

<!--toc:start-->

- [Destructuring in JavaScript](#destructuring-in-javascript)
  - [Introduction](#introduction)
  - [What You Will Learn](#what-you-will-learn)
  - [Illustration of Destructuring](#illustration-of-destructuring)
  - [Example with Math object](#example-with-math-object)
  - [Important > [!NOTE]](#important-note)
  - [Confirming Values](#confirming-values)
  - [Updating Values](#updating-values)
  - [Conclusion](#conclusion)
  <!--toc:end-->

## Introduction

- Apply formatting in a word processor is similar to copying properties from one text to another.
- JavaScript objects can have properties that define their characteristics.

## What You Will Learn

- How to destructure objects and arrays.
- How to use the destructuring syntax to extract new variables from objects and arrays.

## Illustration of Destructuring

- Imagine an object or array as a project folder with several files.
- Destructuring is like copying an item from your folder to another location.
- The original item still exists in the project folder.
- The copy is completely independent of the original item.

## Example with Math object

- Use the `let` keyword and surround `PI` in curly brackets, equals `Math`.
- Make a copy of `PI` and save it in a separate variable named `PI`.

## Important > [!NOTE]

> - You can only destructure something that already exists on an object.
> - Faulty spelling, including lowercase, won't work and will return undefined.
> - Example: `let { pi } = Math` returns `pi` as undefined because there isn't a lowercase `pi` property on the Math object.

## Confirming Values

- Use the triple equal strict comparison operator to confirm the `PI` has the same value and data type as `Math.PI`.
- This will return `true`, proving that the destructured property and the original property are not connected.

## Updating Values

- Update the value of `PI` to `1` by typing `PI = 1`.
- Compare `PI` and `Math.PI` again by typing `PI === Math.PI`.
- This will return `false`, showing that the two are no longer the same.

## Conclusion

- The original property on the object and the destructured value are not connected in any way.
- No connection exists between the destructed variable and the source property on the given object.
