---
Date: "2025-03-08"
Id: 4.Template literals example
---

# 4.Template literals example

<!--toc:start-->

- [4.Template literals example](#4template-literals-example) - [What are Template Literals?](#what-are-template-literals) - [Difference Between a Template and Regular String](#difference-between-a-template-and-regular-string)
<!--toc:end-->

### What are Template Literals?

Template literals are an alternative way of working with strings, introduced in the ES6 addition to the JavaScript language.

Up until ES6, the only way to build strings in JavaScript was to delimit them in either single quotes or double quotes:

```JavaScript
let singleQuoteString = 'Hello World!';
let doubleQuoteString = "Hello World!";
```

Alongside the previous ways to build strings, ES6 introduced the use of backtick characters as delimiters:

```JavaScript
let templateLiteralString = `Hello, World!`;
```

The above code snippet is an example of a template string, which is also known as template literal.

> Note: On most keyboards, the backtick character can be located above the TAB key, to the left of the number 1 key.

### Difference Between a Template and Regular String

There are several ways in which a template string is different from a regular string.

- **Variable Interpolation**:
  With template literals, an expression can be embedded in a placeholder. A placeholder is represented by `${}`, with anything within the curly brackets treated as JavaScript and anything outside the brackets treated as a string:

  ```JavaScript
  let name = 'John';
  console.log(`Hello, ${name}`);
  ```

  The above console log will output: `Hello, John`.

  Essentially, using template literals allows programmers to embed variables directly in between the backticks, without the need to use the `+` operator and the single or double quotes to delimit string literals from variables. In other words, in ES5, the above example would to be written as follows:

  ```JavaScript
  let name = 'John';
  console.log('Hello, ' + name);
  ```

- **Multi-line Strings**:

  Besides variable interpolation, template strings can span multiple lines. For example, this is perfectly good syntax:

  ```JavaScript
  let multiLineString = `This is a string
  that span across
  multiple lines`;
  ```

  Notice that this can't be done using string literals (that is, strings delimited in single or double quotes):

  ```JavaScript
  let invaildMultiLikeString = 'This is a string
  that spans across
  multiple lines.'; // This will throw a syntax error
  ```

  Put simply, template literals allow for multi-line strings - something that simply isn't possible with string literals.

- **Expression Evalution**:

  Additionally, the reason why it's possible to interpolate variables in template literals is because this syntax actually allows for expression evaluation.

  ```JavaScript
  let stars = 5;
  console.log(`This restaurant has ${stars} stars!`);
  ```

  The above example will console log the following string: `This restaurant has 5 stars!`.

  This opens up a host of possibilities. For example, it's possible to evaluate a ternary expression inside a template literal.

> Continue Reading: **_[[3.Difference Between for-in and for-of loops|Difference Between for-in and for-of loops]]_**
