# Understanding Servers and Web Servers

<!--toc:start-->

- [Understanding Servers and Web Servers](#understanding-servers-and-web-servers)
  - [1. What is a Server?](#1-what-is-a-server)
  - [2. Data Centers](#2-data-centers)
  - [3. Server Hardware vs Software](#3-server-hardware-vs-software)
  - [4. What is a Web Server?](#4-what-is-a-web-server)
  - [5. Summary](#5-summary)
  <!--toc:end-->

_2025-02-10_

## 1. What is a Server?

- A **server** is a computer that runs applications and services (e.g., websites, messaging).
- Called a **server** because it provides a service to a **client** (another computer/user).
- Typically stored in **data centers** with **hundreds or thousands of servers**.

## 2. Data Centers

- Data centers ensure servers have:
  - **Continuous power**
  - **Stable internet connection**
  - **Cooling systems (24/7 operation)**
- Located **worldwide** to provide faster content delivery.

## 3. Server Hardware vs Software

- **Server Hardware**: Physical components of a server, designed for specific tasks.
  - Example: **Storage server** => More hard drive space
  - Example: **Computing server** => Powerful processor & more memory
- **Server Software**: Code running on the hardware.
- Hardware = Physical, hard to change
- Software = Code, easy to modify

## 4. What is a Web Server?

- A **web server** is a type of server used for:
  - **Website storage & administration**
  - **Data storage & security**
  - **Email management**
- **Handles web requests**:
- When you type a website name in your browser, the **web server** sends back the website content.
- Web servers handle **thousands of requests per seconds**.

## 5. Summary

- A **server** provides services to **clients** and runs in **data centers**.
- Servers consist of:
  - **Hardware** (physical components)
  - **Software** (code)
- **Web servers** store websites and handle **web requests** from users.
