---
id: 2.Looping Constructs in JavaScript
aliases: []
tags: []
---

# Looping Constructs in JavaScript

<!--toc:start-->

- [Looping Constructs in JavaScript](#looping-constructs-in-javascript)
  - [Introduction](#introduction)
  - [Loop in JavaScript](#loop-in-javascript)
  - [Importance of the Counter Variable](#importance-of-the-counter-variable)
  - [Example Without Loops](#example-without-loops)
  - [Types of Loops](#types-of-loops)
  - [For Loop](#for-loop)
  - [While Loop](#while-loop)
  - [Conclusion](#conclusion)
  <!--toc:end-->

**Date: 2025-02-27**

## Introduction

In our everyday life, there are times when we have to repeat some activity again and again. Examples include:

- Closing each button when putting on a shirt
- Washing a stack of plates one by one.
- Counting down from ten to one before singing _Happy New Year_.

Similarly, **repetitive tasks** are common in JavaScript, and we use **looping constructs** to handle them efficiently.

## Loop in JavaScript

In JavaScript, developers use **loops** to continually execute repeated blocks of code **until a certain condition is satified**.
Loops are similar to **conditional** since a condition must be met for the code to execute. However, loops include an **additional parameter**, often called an **incrementer** or **loop counter**.

## Importance of the Counter Variable

Consider a real-life example:

- Counting down from **10** to **1** before singing _Happy New Year_.
- Only after the count reaches **1**, we start singing.
- The **counter** must have a specific value to **terminate** the loop

In JavaScript, the **counter** can be any variable, but it's common to use **'i'**. Without a counter, the loop will not know when to **start** or **terminate**, leading to an **infinite loop**.

## Example Without Loops

```js
console.log(1);
console.log(2);
console.log(3);
```

Here, we are performing **the same task repeatedly**, only changing the number being logged. Instead, a **loop** can make this more efficient.
Using a **loop**, we can count to **100** using just **three lines of code** by updating the condition.

## Types of Loops

There are multiple types of loops in JavaScript:

- **For loop**
- **While loop**
- **Nested loops**

## For Loop

A **for loop** is used to **repeat a block of code a fixed number of times**. It follows a structured format:

1. A **counter variable** is set.
2. A **condition** is specified.
3. The **counter is incremented** (or decremented).
   Example:

```js
for (let i = 1; i <= 3; i++) {
  console.log(i);
}
```

## While Loop

A **while loop** runs as long as the **condition remains true**,.
Unlike the for-loop:

- The **start counter** is set outside the loop.
- The **incrementing** happens inside the loop body.
  Example:

```js
let i = 1;
while (i <= 3) {
  console.log(i);
  i++;
}
```

## Conclusion

- While both achieve the same result, the **for loop** is often preferred because it keeps all logic **self-contained**.
- Always **update the counter value** to avoid **infinite loops**.

---
