# Introduction to Classes in JavaScript

<!--toc:start-->

- [Introduction to Classes in JavaScript](#introduction-to-classes-in-javascript)
  - [Overview](#overview)
  - [Key Concepts](#key-concepts)
    - [What are classes?](#what-are-classes)
    - [Defining a class in JavaScript](#defining-a-class-in-javascript)
    - [Instantiating Objects](#instantiating-objects)
  - [Practical Example](#practical-example)
  - [Summary](#summary)
  <!--toc:end-->

_Date: 2025-03-05_

## Overview

In programming, classes are essential for efficiently creating multiple objects with specific properties and methods.

## Key Concepts

### What are classes?

- **Classes**: Blueprints for creating objects with specific properties and methods.
- **Purpose**: Efficiently build multiple objects (e.g., hundreds of car objects for a car racing game).

### Defining a class in JavaScript

1. **Class Keyword**: Use the `class` keyword followed by the class name (starting with a capital letter) and a pair of curly braces.
   ```JavaScript
   class Car {
       // Constructor and methods go here
   }
   ```
2. **Constructor Function**:
   - Accepts parameters needed for the object's properties.
   - Assign passed parameters to the object's properties.
   - Used when instantiating new objects (instances of the class).

```js
class Car {
  constructor(make, model, year) {
    this.make = make;
    this.model = model;
    this.year = year;
  }
}
```

3. **Methods**:
   - Add methods without using the `function` keyword.
   - Methods can manipulate the object's properties and accept parameters like regular functions.

```js
class Car {
	constructor(make, model, year){
		this.make = make;
		this.model = model;
		this.year = year;
	}
	turboOn(){
		console.log(`${this.make} ${this.model} turbo is now on!);
	}
}
```

### Instantiating Objects

- **Creating an Instance**:
  - Use the `new` keyword followed by the class name and required parameters.

```js
const carOne = new Car("Toyota", "Supra", 2020);
```

- **Accessing Methods and Properties**:
  - Use the dot notation to access methods and properites.

```js
carOne.turboOn(); // Outputs: Toyota Supra turbo is now on!
```

## Practical Example

- **Defining a Car Class**:

```js
class Car {
  constructor(make, model, year) {
    this.make = make;
    this.model = model;
    this.year = year;
  }

  turboOn() {
    console.log(`${this.make} ${this.model} turbo is now on!`);
  }
}
```

- **Creating and Using an Instance**:

```js
const carOne = new Car("Toyota", "Supra", 2020);
carOne.turboOn(); // Outputs: Toyota Supra is now on!
```

## Summary

- Classes are blueprints for creating multiple objects with specific properties and methods.
- Use the `class` keyword to define a class in JavaScript.
- The constructor function initializes objects.
- Add methods directly within the class definition.
- Instantiate objects using the `new` keyword and access their methods and properties using dot notation.

---
