# Constructors in JavaScript

<!--toc:start-->

- [Constructors in JavaScript](#constructors-in-javascript)
  - [Overview](#overview)
  - [Built-in Object Types](#built-in-object-types)
    - [Using Constructors](#using-constructors)
    - [Limitations](#limitations)
    - [Purpose of Constructors](#purpose-of-constructors)
  - [Custom Constructor Functions](#custom-constructor-functions)
  - [Using Constructors with Built-in Objects](#using-constructors-with-built-in-objects)
  - [Preferred Syntax](#preferred-syntax)
  - [Examples of Using Constructors](#examples-of-using-constructors)
  - [Conclusion](#conclusion)
  <!--toc:end-->

_Date: 2025-03-05_

## Overview

JavaScript has a number of built-in object types, commonly referred to as "native objects". Constructor functions, or "constructors", allows us to build instances of these native objects. All constructors are capitalized and used with the `new` keyword.

## Built-in Object Types

Some of the built-in object types in JavaScript include:

- Math
- Date
- Object
- Function
- Boolean
- Symbol
- Array
- Map
- Set
- Promise
- JSON

### Using Constructors

To use a constructor function, prepend it with the `new` keyword.

**Example:**

```js
const currentDate = new Date();
console.log(currentDate);
// Outputs: Thu Feb 03 2022 11:24:09 GMT+0100 (Central European Standard Time)
```

### Limitations

Not all built-in objects come with a constructor function. For example, running `new Math()` throws an `Uncaught TypeError` since Math is not a constructor.

**Example:**

```js
// Throws an error
const mathInstance = new Math();
```

### Purpose of Constructors

Constructors are used when the object needs to have unique data (e.g., the Date object). Static objects like Math do not need a constructor as their properties and methods are accessed directly.

**Example:**

```js
console.log(Math.pow(2, 5)); // Outputs: 32
```

## Custom Constructor Functions

You can define custom constructor functions to create your own object types.

**Example**:

```js
function IceCream(flavor, topping) {
  this.flavor = flavor;
  this.topping = topping;
}

const chocolateIcecream = new Icecream("chocolate", "sprinkles");
const vanillaIcecream = new Icecream("vanilla", "chocolate chips");

console.log(chocolateIcecream); // Outputs: Icecream { flavor: 'chocolate', topping: 'sprinkles' }
console.log(vannillaIcecream); // Outputs: Icecream { flavor: 'vanilla', topping: 'chocolate chips' }
```

## Using Constructors with Built-in Objects

While constructors are useful, they are not always the best approach, especially for primitive types.

**Example:**

```js
const apple = new String("apple");
const pear = "pear";

console.log(apple); // Outputs: [String: 'apple']
console.log(pear); // Outputs: pear
```

## Preferred Syntax

- For regular objects, use the object literal syntax `{}` instead of `new Object`.
- For arrays, functions, and regular expressions, use their literal forms:
  - Array: `[]`
  - Function: `() {}`
  - RegExp: `/()/`

**Example**:

```js
const myArray = [];
const myFunction = function () {};
const myRegExp = /d/;
```

## Examples of Using Constructors

While there are exceptions, constructors can be used with various built-in types.

**Example:**

```js
const myArray = new Array();
const myFunction = new Function();
const myRegExp = new RegExp("d");
```

## Conclusion

Constructors are powerful feature in JavaScript, allowing the creation of object instances with unique data. However, they should be used judiciously, especially when dealing with primitive types or regular objects.

---
